entrez_gene	Summary	Sources
ALK	ALK amplifications, fusions and mutations have been shown to be driving events in non-small cell lung cancer. While crizontinib has demonstrated efficacy in treating the amplification, mutations in ALK have been shown to confer resistance to current tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Second-generation TKI's have seen varied success in treating these resistant cases, and the HSP90 inhibitor 17-AAG has been shown to be cytostatic in ALK-altered cell lines. 	24889366, 23401436
AKT1	AKT1, also referred to as protein kinase B, is a known oncogene. AKT activation relies on the PI3K pathway, and is recognized as a critical node in the pathway. The E17 hotspot is the most characterized of AKT1 mutations, and has been shown to result in activation of the protein. Mutations in AKT1 have also been shown to confer resistance to allosteric kinase inhibitors in vitro.  	16095999, 15023437
ARAF	ARAF has recently become increasingly considered for its oncogenic potential. Its potential as a target for informing clinical action was demonstrated by a single case of advanced lung adenocarcinoma harboring an S214C mutation that, when treated with sorafenib, acheived near-complete clinical remission. This finding has brought new focus on ARAF as a marker that should be assayed for in cancer treatment. 	15676015, 24569458
ABL1	ABL1 is most relevant to cancer in its role in the BCR-ABL fusion protein that has become a signature of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Cells harboring this fusion have shown sensitivity to imatinib, greatly improving the prognostic outlook of the disease. However, additional mutations in ABL1 have been shown to confer resistance to imatinib. In these resistance cases, second-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as dasatinib and nilotinib have exhibited some efficacy and are currently undergoing clinical trials for treating acquired resistance in CML. 	15719031, 17457302
BRAF	BRAF mutations are found to be recurrent in many cancer types. Of these, the mutation of valine 600 to glutamic acid (V600E) is the most prevalent. V600E has been determined to be an activating mutation, and cells that harbor it, along with other V600 mutations are sensitive to the BRAF inhibitor dabrafenib. It is also common to use MEK inhibition as a substitute for BRAF inhibitors, and the MEK inhibitor trametinib has seen some success in BRAF mutant melanomas. BRAF mutations have also been correlated with poor prognosis in many cancer types, although there is at least one study that questions this conclusion in papillary thyroid cancer. 	19724843, 23594689
BRCA1	BRCA1 mutations in the germline have become a hallmark for hereditary breast and ovarian cancers. Variants that have been demonstrated to reduce the function of the protein have been shown to increase risk for these cancers, as well as prostate and pancreatic cancer. These findings have been the impetus for the increased popularity of genetic testing of healthy indivudals to assess risk. 	24366442
BRCA2	BRCA2 mutations in the germline have become a hallmark for hereditary breast and ovarian cancers. Variants that have been demonstrated to reduce the function of the protein have been shown to increase risk for these cancers, as well as prostate and pancreatic cancer. These findings have been the impetus for the increased popularity of genetic testing of healthy indivudals to assess risk. 	24366442
CCND1	Cyclin D has been shown in many cancer types to be misregulated. Well established for their oncogenic properties, the cyclins and the cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK's) they activate have been the focus of major research and development efforts over the past decade. The methods by which the cyclins are misregulated are widely variable, ranging from genomic amplification to changes in promoter methylation. While Cyclin D2 has only been found to be significantly deregulated in glioma, Cyclin D1 in particular seems to be a pan-cancer actor. Cyclin D misregulation has been shown to lead to poorer outcomes in a number of studies, and currently there are no FDA-approved targeted therapies. 	12432268, 24387133
CCND2	Cyclin D has been shown in many cancer types to be misregulated. Well established for their oncogenic properties, the cyclins and the cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK's) they activate have been the focus of major research and development efforts over the past decade. The methods by which the cyclins are misregulated are widely variable, ranging from genomic amplification to changes in promoter methylation. While Cyclin D2 has only been found to be significantly deregulated in glioma, Cyclin D1 in particular seems to be a pan-cancer actor. Cyclin D misregulation has been shown to lead to poorer outcomes in a number of studies, and currently there are no FDA-approved targeted therapies. 	12432268, 24387133
CCND3	Cyclin D has been shown in many cancer types to be misregulated. Well established for their oncogenic properties, the cyclins and the cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK's) they activate have been the focus of major research and development efforts over the past decade. The methods by which the cyclins are misregulated are widely variable, ranging from genomic amplification to changes in promoter methylation. Cyclin D3 loss has been reported in T-ALL, a seemingly unique trend when compared to the amplifcations and overexpressions of the other cyclin D's. In a mouse study, the targeted therapeutic palbociclib significantly increased the median survival of the cyclin D3 knockouts. 	12432268, 24387133
CCNE1	Cyclin E, while currenly not as widely implicated as its cyclin D counterparts, has been implicated in various carcinomas, including breast, gastric, stomach and colorectal. High levels of cyclin E, either by gene amplification or overexpression, have been shown to lead to poorer prognosis in gastic carcinoma, and these measurements are correlated with later stage disease. In lung cancer, neoplastic cells with higher levels of the cyclin E/CDK2 complex are more radiosensitive than their more lowly expressed counterparts. 	14965268
CDK6	CDK6, along with its partner CDK4, are key players in cell cycle progression. The complex has been implicated in a number of cancer types, and is the focus of therapeutic research and development. One targeted therapy for CDK inhibition is palbociclib, which may slow the growth of advanced stage breast cancers. It has also been shown, in mouse, that CDK inhibition may sensitize mutant PIK3CA tumors to PI3K inhibitors. 	20370706, 24089445
CDK4	CDK4, along with its partner CDK6, are key players in cell cycle progression. The complex has been implicated in a number of cancer types, and is the focus of therapeutic research and development. One targeted therapy for CDK inhibition is palbociclib, which may slow the growth of advanced stage breast cancers. It has also been shown, in mouse, that CDK inhibition may sensitize mutant PIK3CA tumors to PI3K inhibitors. 	20370706, 24089445
CDKN2A	CDKN2A loss has been shown to be a significant event in a number of cancer types. While no targeted therapeutic has been engaged in clinical trials, the prognostic impact has been studied by a number of meta-analyses. One mechanism by which loss of CDKN2A can occur is by hypermethylation of the promoter region for the gene. However, the prognostic impact of promoter hypermethylation has been relatively ambiguous. Many studies have suggesting poorer prognostic outcome for patients with hypermethylation in colorectal, liver, and younger lung cancer patients. This being said, there is still research to be done before this becomes a widely-accepted prognostic indicator. 	20473920, 23111194
CEBPA	AML with mutated CEBPA' is a provisional entity in the WHO classification of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and is recommended to be tested for in patients with AML. CEBPA mutations are particularly associated with cytogenetically normal AML (CN-AML). CEBPA is an intronless gene that is required for granulocyte formation in mice. N-terminal nonsense mutations result in a dominant negative C/EBP-alpha protein while C-terminal mutations reduce the DNA-binding potential of this transcription factor. CEBPA mutations are associated with a favorable prognosis, however, NPM1 and FLT3 mutations should also be assessed in CN-AML patients as concurrent mutations may have prognostic implications. 	19357394, 11242107, 9012825
DNAJB1	DNAJB1 works upstream of MDM2, stabilizing the complex and facilitating p53 turnover. In hepatocellular fibrolamellar carcinoma (FL-HCC), the fusion DNAJB1 to PRKACA is suggested to be a diagnostic marker for this rare subtype of HCC. In one study, this fusion was observed in 15/15 FL-HCC cases examined and functional studies found that the fusion retained kinase activity.	24578576
PRKACA	PRKACA has been studied in breast cancer and has been found to mediate resistance to HER2 targeted therapies. It has also been found to contain a mutation hotspot that contributes to neoplastic behavior in neuroendocrine cancers. In hepatocellular fibrolamellar carcinoma (FL-HCC), the fusion DNAJB1 to PRKACA is suggested to be a diagnostic marker for this rare subtype of HCC. In one study, this fusion was observed in 15/15 FL-HCC cases examined and functional studies found that the fusion retained kinase activity.	24578576, 24909179
DNMT3A	DNMT3A is one of several epigenetic modifiers identified as recurrently mutated in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). DNMT3A mutations are associated with cytogenetically normal AML. In vitro experiments indicate that the R882H mutation acts in a dominant negative manner to disrupt the de novo methyltransferase activity of wildtype homotetramers. AML patient bone marrow harboring R882 mutations were similarly demonstrated to be hypomethylated compared to patients with wildtype DNMT3A. These studies also indicated that non-R882 DNMT3A mutations may act in a functionally distinct manner from R882 mutations. Alternative mechanisms indicate independent prognostic outcomes and treatment protocols may need to be considered for these two classes of DNMT3A mutations.	24167195, 24656771
EGFR	EGFR is widely recognized for its importance in cancer. Amplification and mutations have been shown to be driving events in many cancer types. Its role in non-small cell lung cancer has spurred many research and drug development efforts. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors have shown efficacy in EGFR amplfied tumors, most notably gefitinib and erlotinib. Mutations in EGFR have been shown to confer resistance to these drugs, particularly the variant T790M, which has been functionally characterized as a resistance marker for both of these drugs. The later generation TKI's have seen some success in treating these resistant cases, and targeted sequencing of the EGFR locus has become a common practice in non-small cell lung cancer. 	23953842, 18712184 
ERBB2	ERBB2, commonly referred to as HER2, is amplified in HER2-positive breast cancer, and is treated in a separate manner than the other subtypes of breast cancer. Apart from being amplified, ERBB2 activating mutations have been shown to have clinical importance in HER2-negative breast cancer. These mutations have shown sensitivity to the tyrosine kinase inhibitor neratinib, and highlight the importance of clinical sequencing efforts in treating breast cancer. 	16947083, 10878580
ESR1	ESR1 has been a focus in breast cancer for quite some time, but has also shown significance in endometrial, ovarian and other cancer types. ER-positive breast cancer that is resistant to hormone therapy has instigated clinical sequencing efforts to shed light on the mechanisms of this resistance. A number of mutations in the ligand binding domain of the protein have been implicated in hormone resistance and anti-estrogen therapies. This has spurred efforts to develop therapeutics that act to degrade the protein, rather than act as an antagonist. These agents are currently in clinical trials and have seen some success, highlighting the importance of sequencing efforts in treating breast cancer. 	24185510, 22279420
FGFR2	The FGFR proteins are involved in a wide array of pathways known to play a signficant role in cancer. Activation of these receptors can lead to activation of the RAS-MAPK pathway and the PI3K-AKT pathway, among others. The mechanisms by which FGFR can be misregulated vary between cancers. Amplification of the receptors has been observed in lung and breast cancers, coding mutations and deletions have been seen in many cancers, and more recently, FGFR fusions that lead to pathway actiation have been demonstrated to have oncogenic potential across multiple cancer types. The targeted therapeutics ponatinib, dovitinib and pazopanib have seen success in treating over-active FGFR signalling, prompting use of diagnostic sequencing targeting the FGFR genes, especially in lung cancer patients.	18636142, 23558953
FGFR3	The FGFR proteins are involved in a wide array of pathways known to play a signficant role in cancer. Activation of these receptors can lead to activation of the RAS-MAPK pathway and the PI3K-AKT pathway, among others. The mechanisms by which FGFR can be misregulated vary between cancers. Amplification of the receptors has been observed in lung and breast cancers, coding mutations and deletions have been seen in many cancers, and more recently, FGFR fusions that lead to pathway actiation have been demonstrated to have oncogenic potential across multiple cancer types. The targeted therapeutics ponatinib, dovitinib and pazopanib have seen success in treating over-active FGFR signalling, prompting use of diagnostic sequencing targeting the FGFR genes, especially in lung cancer patients.	18636142, 23558953
FLT3	FLT3 is an important cytokine receptor involved in normal hematopoiesis. Mutations in this gene are common in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and screening for mutations in this gene has been recommended by the World Health Organization in patients with AML, particularly in cases of cytogenetically normal AML (CN-AML). FLT3 mutations commonly co-occur with mutations such as NPM1 that are associated with CN-AML and likely modulate prognostic impact. While FLT3-ITD mutations have been associated with poorer prognosis in AML, the prognostic impact of FLT3-TKD mutations are still up for debate.  	12951584, 19357394
GATA2	GATA2 is a transcription factor involved in stem cell maintenance with key roles in hematopoietic development. GATA2 mutations are associated with a variety of inherited and acquired immune disorders including myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia. In addition to a role in hematopoiesis, the maintenance GATA2 expression has been implicated as a requirement in KRAS-driven non-small cell lung cancer. Preclinical models have indicated therapeutic benefit from targeting GATA2-mediated pathways in the context of KRAS-driven NSCLC.	22541434, 25619630
IDH1	IDH1 mutations have been observed in a number of cancer types, including sarcomas, hematologic malignancies, colon cancer and brain cancer. Mutations in the two isocitrate dehydrogenase enzymes involved in cytoplasmic (IDH1) and mitochondrial (IDH2) conversion of alpha-ketoglutarate to D-2-hydroxyglutarate have been described as mutually exclusive in many of these cancer types. The most frequent mutations involve R132 (IDH1) and R172 (IDH2) involve the active site and result in neomorphic enzyme activity. The implications of mutations in this gene vary greatly by cancer type. In myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia (AML), IDH1 mutations have been associated with worse outcome, shorter overall survival, and normal karyotype. However, in glioblastoma and astrocytoma, patients with IDH1 mutations have shown better overall survival than patients with wild-type IDH1. Unlike the association with cytogenetically normal AML, in glioblastoma, IDH1 mutations have been associated with specific cytogenetic abnormalities, 1p and 19q deletions. 	24065766, 19228619
IDH2	IDH2 mutations have been observed in a number of cancer types, including sarcomas, hematologic malignancies, colon cancer and brain cancer. Mutations in the two isocitrate dehydrogenase enzymes involved in cytoplasmic (IDH1) and mitochondrial (IDH2) conversion of alpha-ketoglutarate to D-2-hydroxyglutarate have been described as mutually exclusive in many of these cancer types. The most frequent mutations involve R132 (IDH1) and R172 (IDH2) involve the active site and result in neomorphic enzyme activity. Although IDH2 (R172) mutations are associated with poorer overall prognosis in AML patients, its utility as a prognostic marker in MDS is still under debate. Additionally, IDH2 (R140) has been associated with improved overall survival in AML. IDH2 mutations have been associated with improved prognosis in gliomas. 	24065766, 19228619, 22417203
JAK2	JAK2 is a kinase that is misregulated or mutated in a number of myeloproliferative diseases and cancers. The mutation V617F is the most clinically relevant variant, and is seen in around half of myeloproliferative disorders. The variant is a known activating mutation, and activated JAK2 is sufficient to drive myeloproliferative disorders in mouse models. V617F, while most recurrent, is not the only mechanism by which JAK2 can be activated in patients. JAK2 is now one of the first diagnostic markers tested upon diagnosis with a myeloproliferative disorder. 	17133099
KIT	c-KIT activation has been shown to have oncogenic activity in gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs), melanomas, lung cancer, and other tumor types. The targeted therapeutics nilotinib and sunitinib have shown efficacy in treating KIT overactive patients, and are in late-stage trials in melanoma and GIST. KIT overactivity can be the result of many genomic events from genomic amplification to overexpression to missense mutations. Missense mutations have been shown to be key players in mediating clinical response and acquired resistance in patients being treated with these targeted therapeutics.	23944364
KRAS	Mutations in the RAS family of proteins have frequently observed across cancer types. The amino acid positions account for the overwhelming majority of these mutations, G12, G13 and Q61. The isoforms, despite their raw similarity, also behave very differently when expressed in non-native tissue types, likely due to differences in the C-terminal hyper-variable regions. Mis-regulation of isoform expression has been shown to be a driving event in cancer, as well as missense mutations at the three hotspots previously mentioned. While highly recurrent in cancer, targeted these RAS mutants has also been very elusive, and has not yet become common practice in the clinic. 	22589270
MAP2K1	A summary for this gene has yet to be developed! Add one now by clicking the "Edit Gene" button.	
MEF2D	A summary for this gene has yet to be developed! Add one now by clicking the "Edit Gene" button.	
CSF1R	A summary for this gene has yet to be developed! Add one now by clicking the "Edit Gene" button.	
MGMT	A summary for this gene has yet to be developed! Add one now by clicking the "Edit Gene" button.	
NPM1	AML with mutated NPM1 is provisional entity in the WHO classification of AML and is recommended to be tested for in patients with cytogenetically normal AML (CN-AML). Evaluation of FLT3 mutations should be evaluated concurrently as they have prognostic consequences. NPM1 mutations are concentrated in exon 12, most frequently W288fs which results in cytoplasmic sequestration of the protein. Exon 12 NPM1 mutations in the absence of FLT3-ITD are associated with good prognostic outcomes. Mice expressing the Npm1-W288fs mutation develop myeloproliferative neoplasms but not overt leukemia, indicating it may require additional mutations to promote leukemic development. 	23226219, 19357394
NRAS	Mutations in the RAS family of proteins have frequently observed across cancer types. The amino acid positions account for the overwhelming majority of these mutations, G12, G13 and Q61. The isoforms, despite their raw similarity, also behave very differently when expressed in non-native tissue types, likely due to differences in the C-terminal hyper-variable regions. Mis-regulation of isoform expression has been shown to be a driving event in cancer, as well as missense mutations at the three hotspots previously mentioned. While highly recurrent in cancer, targeted these RAS mutants has also been very elusive, and has not yet become common practice in the clinic. 	
PIK3CA	PIK3CA is the most recurrently mutated gene in breast cancer, and has been found to important in a number of cancer types. An integral part of the PI3K pathway, PIK3CA has long been described as an oncogene, with two main hotspots for activating mutations, the 542/545 region of the helical domain, and the 1047 region of the kinase domain. PIK3CA, and its interaction with the AKT and mTOR pathways, is the subject of an immense amount of research and development, and PI3K inhibition has seen some limited success in recent clinical trials. While monotherapies seem to be limited in their potential, there is a recent interest in pursuing PI3K inhibition as part of a combination therapy regiment with inhibition partners including TKI's, MEK inhibitors, PARP inhibitors, and in breast cancer, aromatase inhibitors. 	
PDGFRA	A summary for this gene has yet to be developed! Add one now by clicking the "Edit Gene" button.
PML	The PML-RARA fusion is the result of a recurrent, balanced translocation between chromosomes 15 and 17, denoted as t(15;17)(q22;q12), and a diagnostic event in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Both in vitro and in vivo studies have shown sensitivity to ATRA (all-trans retinoic acid) in APL patients harboring the PML-RARA fusion. Recent interest has been shown in combining ATRA and arsenic trioxide for treating these patients, and early results seem promising. 	
RARA	The PML-RARA fusion is the result of a recurrent, balanced translocation between chromosomes 15 and 17, denoted as t(15;17)(q22;q12), and a diagnostic event in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Both in vitro and in vivo studies have shown sensitivity to ATRA (all-trans retinoic acid) in APL patients harboring the PML-RARA fusion. Recent interest has been shown in combining ATRA and arsenic trioxide for treating these patients, and early results seem promising. 	
PTEN	A summary for this gene has yet to be developed! Add one now by clicking the "Edit Gene" button.
RET	RET mutations and the RET fusion RET-PTC lead to activation of this tyrosine kinase receptor and are associated with thyroid cancers. RET point mutations are the most common mutations identified in medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) with germline and somatic mutations in RET associated with hereditary and sporadic forms, respectively. The most common somatic form mutation is M918T (exon 16) and a variety of other mutations effecting exons 10, 11 and 15 have been described. The prognostic significance of these mutations have been hotly debated in the field, however, data suggests that some RET mutation may confer drug resistence. No RET-specific agents are currently clinically available but several promiscuous kinase inhibitors that target RET, among others, have been approved for MTC treatment.	18073307, 25465739
RUNX1	A summary for this gene has yet to be developed! Add one now by clicking the "Edit Gene" button.
SF3B1	SF3B1 mutations have been described in several myeloid malignancies, predominantly myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), as well as other hematologic malignancies and breast cancer. SF3B1 is one of several genes involved in RNA splicing that has been identified as recurrently mutated in MDS and other malignanices. The mutations affecting SF3B1 are typically heterozygous, point mutations suspected to be functionally deleterious with K700E described as a major hotspot mutation. MDS patients with SF3B1 mutations have been reported to have better overall and event-free survival than their wildtype counterparts. Additionally, these mutations are highly associated with subtypes of MDS characterized by ringed sideroblasts (refractory anemia with ringed sideroblasts and refractory cytopenia with multilineage dysplasia and ring sideroblasts).	21995386, 24136165
TP53	TP53 mutations are universal across cancer types. Loss of tumor suppressors is most recognized by large deleterious events, such as frameshift mutations, or premature stop codons. In TP53 however, many of the observed mutations in cancer are found to be single nucleotide variants, or missense mutations. These variants are also very broadly distributed throughout the gene, not localizing in any particular hotspot. While a large proportion of cancer genomics research is focused on somatic variants, TP53 is also of note in the germline. Germline TP53 mutations are the hallmark of Li-Fraumeni syndrome, and many (both germline and somatic) have been found to have prognostic impact on patient outcomes. 	20182602
TSC1	A summary for this gene has yet to be developed! Add one now by clicking the "Edit Gene" button.	
TSC2	A summary for this gene has yet to be developed! Add one now by clicking the "Edit Gene" button.	
U2AF1	U2AF1 is one of several spliceosome complex genes frequently mutated in a variety of hematologic malignancies, particularly de novo myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), as well as solid tumors such as lung and pancreatic cancers. Two hotspot mutations (S34 and Q157) occur within the two zinc-finger domains of the U2AF1 protein. These mutations have been associated with altered splicing patterns in vitro and in vivo. U2AF1 mutations in MDS have been associated with an increased risk of transformation to secondary acute myeloid leukemia, however, the impact of these mutations on overall survival has been an area of debate.	25311244, 22158538
WT1	WT1 is a tumor suppressor gene associated with the development of Wilms' Tumor, from which it was named. Mutations in exon 7 and 9 of WT1 have been recurrently identified in acute myeloid leukemia and associated with poorer prognosis and chemotherapy resistance.	
MTOR	A summary for this gene has yet to be developed! Add one now by clicking the "Edit Gene" button.	
NOTCH1	A summary for this gene has yet to be developed! Add one now by clicking the "Edit Gene" button.	
DDR2	A summary for this gene has yet to be developed! Add one now by clicking the "Edit Gene" button.	
MET	A summary for this gene has yet to be developed! Add one now by clicking the "Edit Gene" button.	