Variant_Group	Summary	Curator
Imatinib Resistance	While imatinib has shown to be incredibly successful in treating philadelphia chromosome positive CML, patients that have shown primary or secondary resistance to the drug have been observed to harbor T315I and E255K ABL kinase domain mutations. These mutations, among others, have been observed both in primary refractory disease and acquired resistance. In gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST), PDGFRA 842 mutations have also been shown to confer resistance to imatinib. 	nspies
ALK Fusions	ALK fusion positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is treated as its own subset of NSCLC. Many ALK fusions that have been seen as recurrent in cancer serve to increase the activity of the ALK oncogene relative to normal cells. While EML4 is the most common fusion partner, other 5' partners have been observed. The EML4-ALK fusion has shown sensitivity to targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as crizotinib. 	nspies
EGFR TKI Resistance	EGFR pathway activation is a nearly ubiquitous hallmark of cancer. Many tyrosine kinase inhibitors have been developed to target EGFR pathway activity. One such inhibitor, erlotinib, has demonstrated efficacy in an EGFR over-active setting. However, the T790M missense mutation has shown to confer resistance to this inhibitor in cell lines and case studies.  	nspies
Crizotinib Resistance	The ALK oncogene has long been considered a driving factor in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor criztonib has shown to be effective in ALK-mutant NSCLC. However, in patients that have shown acquired resistance to crizotinib, missense mutations in the tyrosine kinase domain have shown to drive this resistance. 	nspies
Other V600's	While BRAF V600E is nearly ubiquitous in many cancer types, other V600 variants have also been observed and studied to a lesser degree. At first approximation, many of these variants seem to behave similarly to V600E, and treatment with dabrafenib has been shown to be effective. 	nspies
HER2 Activating	HER2-positive breast cancer is widely recognized as a molecular subtype of breast cancer. While amplification of ERBB2 is a common mechanism for activation of the pathway, missense mutations have also demonstrated activation potential. These activating missense mutations also confer senstivity to the targeted therapeutic neratinib. 	nspies
ESR1 Ligand-Binding Domain	ER-positive breast cancer is the most common of the breast cancer subtypes. Hormone therapy has been widely effective in treating the disease, however sequencing of resistant patients has uncovered a number of missense mutations in mediating this resistance. Many of these mutations lie within the ligand-binding domain, and contribute to constitutive activity of the receptor. This has lead to the development of estrogen receptor degrading agents such as fulvestrant, which have shown early efficacy in clinical trials.  	nspies
FGFR fusions	FGFR fusions have been demonstrated across many cancer types to have oncogenic potential. FGFR2 and FGFR3 have been shown to be fused to many 3' partners, which may act as a vehicle for pathway activation. Treatment of cell lines harboring FGFR2 fusions with pazopanib has shown mild "anti-tumor" activities, and both ponatinib and pazopanib have shown efficacy in case studies.  	nspies
NPM1 exon 12	NPM1 exon 12 mutations are frequently identified in patients with cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and often co-occur with FLT3-ITD. FLT3 status should also be evaluated as co-occurence with FLT3-ITD may impact prognosis. Exon 12 mutations have been identified as a predictor of good prognostic outcomes in the absence of FLT3-ITD. Due to their high frequency, NPM1 mutations have been retrospectively analyzed in the context of a number of therapies including variable results following ATRA treatment as well as improved response to high-dose daunorubicin or valproic acid. Additionally, multiple groups have shown increased surface expression of CD33 associated with NPM1 mutation, suggesting these patients may respond to anti-CD33 therapy. Cytoplasmic sequestration of NPM1 (NPM1c) is associated with a good response to induction therapy.	nspies
PTEN Loss-of-Function	PTEN loss is a common event in breast cancer, as well as others. The most common single nucleotide variant resulting in PTEN loss is a R233 nonsense mutation. Cell lines harboring this mutation behave similarly to cell lines harboring larger insertion or deletion events, in that they both respond to PI3K-mTOR inhibitors with impeded growth. 	nspies
Motesanib Resistance	RET activation is a common oncogenic marker of medullary thyroid carcinoma. Treatment of these patients with the targeted therapeutic motesanib has shown to be effective. However, the missense mutations C634W and M918T have shown to confer motesanib resistance in cell lines. 	nspies
TSC Loss	Inactivating events in TSC1 and TSC2 have been observed in a number of cancer types. Cell lines and case studies have shown that in the loss of TSC, the mTOR inhibitor everolimus has seen significant anti-tumorigenic activity. 	nspies
BRCA Germline Variants	BRCA germline variants have long been recognized as important potential predictors of breast and ovarian cancer risk. 	nspies