entrez_gene	variant	Summary
ABL1	BCR-ABL	The BCR-ABL fusion protein, commonly referred to as the philadelphia chromosome, is the most well-studied fusion gene in cancer. It has widely been considered the initiating event in chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), but despite its ability initiate disease in mice, its status an initiating mutation is in dispute. In what is commonly used as the poster-child for targeted therapeutics, the development and use of imatinib in the clinic has led to profound improvements in the prognosis of the disease. However, imatinib resistance is still seen in patients with mutations in the ABL kinase domain of the fusion, most notably the T315I variant. In patients resistant to imatinib, either acquired or otherwise, second generation BCR-ABL TKI's (dasatinib and nilotinib) have seen some success in delivering a tumor response. 
ABL1	BCR-ABL T315I	While the efficacy of imatinib has revolutionized chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) treatment, it is still not a cure-all. Both initial resistance and acquired resistance as a result of seleciton have been seen in a small subset of CML patients. The ABL kinase domain mutation T315I has been shown to be one such mutation that confers resistance to imatinib. Second generation TKI's (dasatinib and nilotinib) specific to BCR-ABL have shown efficacy in treating resistant cases. 
AKT1	E17K	AKT1 E17K is a recurrent mutation that has been observed in breast, colorectal, lung, and ovarian cancer. It has been convincingly shown to be an activating mutation resulting in PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway activity. It has been suggested that this mutation decreases the cell's sensitivity to AKT1 allosteric kinase ihibitors. This, and other AKT1 mutations, are the subject of much research and development for therapeutics.
ALK	EML4-ALK	The EML4-ALK fusion has been seen in non-small cell lung cancer, and appears to be an alternative mechanism for ALK activation. Cells with this fusion have been shown to be sensitive to the ALK inhibitor crizotinib. 
ALK	EML4-ALK C1156Y	In patients with non-small cell lung cancer exhibiting EML4-ALK fusion, this variant has been shown to confer resistance to crizotinib.
ALK	EML4-ALK L1196M	In patients with non-small cell lung cancer exhibiting EML4-ALK fusion, this variant has been shown to confer resistance to crizotinib.
ALK	F1174L	ALK F1174L has been observed as recurrent in neuroblastoma, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and other cancer types. Neuroblastoma cells containing this mutation have shown resistance to low doses of criztonib. However, increased dosage can overcome this resistance in cell lines studies. TAE684 has also proven effective in both NSCLC and neuroblastoma F1174L containing cells.
ALK	R1275Q	ALK R1275Q has been observed as a recurrent mutation in  neuroblastoma, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), as well as other cancer types. Neuroblastoma cells with this mutation have shown sensitivity to the ALK-inhibitor TAE684. This, and the geldanamycin deriviative 17-DMAG, has been shown to be effective in NSCLC cell lines. 
ARAF	S214C	ARAF S214C has been found to be a recurrent oncogenic mutation in non-small cell lung cancer. It has been shown to confer sensitivity to sorafenib and trametenib in cell lines. In a case study of advanced stage lung adenocarcinoma harboring this mutation, sorafenib also acheived near-complete clinical remission. This case has brought more interest to the variant from a research and clinical perspective. 
BRAF	V600D	Patients harboring mutations in valine 600 residue of BRAF have been shown to be sensitive to dabrafenib. For more information on the V600 locus, see the V600E entry. 
BRAF	V600E	BRAF V600E has been shown to be recurrent in many cancer types. It is one of the most widely studied variants in cancer. This variant is correlated with poor prognosis in certain cancer types, including colorectal cancer and papillary thyroid cancer. The targeted therapeutic dabrafenib has been shown to be effective in clinical trials with an array of BRAF mutations and cancer types. Dabrafenib has also shown to be effective when combined with the MEK inhibitor trametinib in colorectal cancer and melanoma. However, in patients with TP53, KRAS, and CDK2NA mutations, dabrafenib resistance has been reported. Ipilimumab, regorafenib, vemurafenib, and a number of combination therapies have been successful in treating V600E mutations. While the drugs cetuximab and panitumumab have been largely shown to be ineffective without supplementary treatment. 
BRAF	V600E/V600M	A case study of a single patient harboring both a V600E and a V600M mutation, dabrafenib was shown to acheive clinical response. 
BRAF	V600E amplification	Amplification of BRAF V600E has been shown to confer resistance to MEK inhibitors. For more information on the V600 locus, see the V600E entry. 
BRAF	V600M	Patients harboring mutations in valine 600 residue of BRAF have been shown to be sensitive to dabrafenib. For more information on the V600 locus, see the V600E entry. 
BRAF	V600R	Patients harboring mutations in valine 600 residue of BRAF have been shown to be sensitive to dabrafenib. For more information on the V600 locus, see the V600E entry. 
BRAF 	V600	BRAF mutations of the valine 600 residue have been shown to be recurrent in many cancer types. Of the V600 mutations, V600E is the most widely researched. V600 mutations as a whole have been correlated to poorer prognosis in colorectal and papilarry thyroid cancers. V600 mutations have also been shown to confer sensitivity to the BRAF inhibitor dabrafenib. For a more detailed summary, click the individual mutation pages on the left sidebar. 
CCND1	Amplification	CCND1 amplification has been implicated in poorer prognosis in non-small cell lung cancer. 
CCND1	Expression	CCND1 expression, and its prognositc impact, is still in dispute. Three experiments in non-small cell lung cancer have shown it to have no impact on survival, but three additional studies have shown it results in poorer prognosis. There is also some ambiguity in how the boundaries between expression and overexpression are defined. 
CCND1	Overexpression	Cyclin D has been shown in many cancer types to be misregulated. Well established for their oncogenic properties, the cyclins and the cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK's) they activate have been the focus of major research and development efforts over the past decade. The methods by which the cyclins are misregulated are widely variable, and range from genomic amplification to promoter methylation changes. While Cyclin D2 has only been found to be significantly misregulated in glioma, Cyclin D1 in particular seems to be a pan-cancer actor. Cyclin D misregulation has been shown to lead to poorer outcomes in a number of studies, and currently there are no FDA-approved targeted therapies. 
CCND2	Overexpression	Cyclin D has been shown in many cancer types to be misregulated. Well established for their oncogenic properties, the cyclins and the cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK's) they activate have been the focus of major research and development efforts over the past decade. The methods by which the cyclins are misregulated are widely variable, and range from genomic amplification to promoter methylation changes. While Cyclin D2 has only been found to be significantly misregulated in glioma, Cyclin D1 in particular seems to be a pan-cancer actor. Cyclin D misregulation has been shown to lead to poorer outcomes in a number of studies, and currently there are no FDA-approved targeted therapies. 
CCND2	Promoter Demethylation	Cyclin D has been shown in many cancer types to be misregulated. Well established for their oncogenic properties, the cyclins and the cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK's) they activate have been the focus of major research and development efforts over the past decade. The methods by which the cyclins are misregulated are widely variable, and range from genomic amplification to promoter methylation changes. While Cyclin D2 has only been found to be significantly misregulated in glioma, Cyclin D1 in particular seems to be a pan-cancer actor. Cyclin D misregulation has been shown to lead to poorer outcomes in a number of studies, and currently there are no FDA-approved targeted therapies. 
CCND3	Loss	Cyclin D has been shown in many cancer types to be misregulated. Well established for their oncogenic properties, the cyclins and the cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK's) they activate have been the focus of major research and development efforts over the past decade. The methods by which the cyclins are deregulated are widely variable, and range from genomic amplification to promoter methylation changes. Cyclin D3 loss has been reported in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), a seemingly unique trend when compared to the amplifcations and overexpressions of the other cyclin D's. Treating cyclin D3 knockout mice with the targeted therapeutic palbociclib significantly increased the median survival of a Notch-driven model of T-ALL. 
CCNE1	Overexpression	Cyclin E, while currenly not as widely implicated as its counterpart, cyclin D, has been implicated in various carcinomas, including breast, gastric, stomach and colorectal. High levels of cyclin E, either by gene amplification or overexpression, are correlated with later stage disease and have been shown to lead to poorer prognosis in gastic carcinoma. It has also been shown, in lung cancer specifically, that neoplastic cells with higher levels of the cyclin E/CDK2 complex are more radiosensitive than their lowly expressed counterparts. 
CDK4	Expression	CDK4, along with its partner CDK6, are key players in cell cycle progression. The complex has been implicated in a number of cancer types, and is the focus of therapeutic research and development. One targeted therapy for CDK inhibition is palbociclib, which may slow the growth of advanced stage breast cancers. It has also been shown, in mouse, that CDK inhibition may sensitize mutant PIK3CA tumors to PI3K inhibitors. 
CDK6	Expression	CDK6, along with its partner CDK4, are key players in cell cycle progression. The complex has been implicated in a number of cancer types, and is the focus of therapeutic research and development. One targeted therapy for CDK inhibition is palbociclib, which may slow the growth of advanced stage breast cancers. It has also been shown, in mouse, that CDK inhibition may sensitize mutant PIK3CA tumors to PI3K inhibitors. 
CDKN2A	Promoter Hypermethylation	CDKN2A loss has been shown to be a significant event in a number of cancer types. One mechanism by which this can occur is by hypermethylation of the CDKN2A promoter region. While no targeted therapeutic has been engaged in clinical trials, the prognostic impact has been studied by a number of meta-analyses. The prognostic impact of promoter hypermethylation has been relatively ambiguous. Many studies have shown significant p-values suggesting poorer prognostic outcomes for patients with hypermethylation in colorectal, liver, and younger lung cancer patients. This being said, there is still research to be done before this becomes a widely-accepted prognostic indicator. 
CEBPA	N-terminal frame shift	CEBPA N-terminal frame shift mutations that result in a premature stop codon are associated with cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia (CN-AML). CEBPA mutations are associated with a favorable prognosis, however, NPM1 and FLT3 mutations should also be assessed in CN-AML patients as concurrent mutations may have prognostic implications.
CEBPA	Whole gene	CEBPA mutations are associated with cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia (CN-AML) and a favorable prognosis. However, NPM1 and FLT3 mutations should also be assessed in CN-AML patients as concurrent mutations may have prognostic implications.
CSF1R	MEF2D-CSF1R	MEF2D-CSF1R is a fusion that has been observed in acute lymphocytic leukemia. In cell lines harboring this event, treatment with imatinib has shown notable sensitivity. 
DNAJB1	DNAJB1-PRKACA	This fusion has been found to be very recurrent in the rare form of adolescent liver cancer, fibrolamellar hepatocellular carcinoma. In one study, this fusion was observed in 15/15 FL-HCC cases examined and functional studies found that the fusion retained kinase activity. The presence of this fusion may be used as a diagnostic marker for this rare tumor type. 
DNMT3A	R882	DNMT3A R882 mutations are associated with cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia (CN-AML) with R882H as the most common form. Mutations in DNMT3A have largely been associated with poorer prognosis, however this is not consistent across all studies. This may be a result of patient age or combining R882 and non-R882 mutations during analysis as studies have indicated independent mechanisms of action and differential prognostic implications for these mutation types. One study that independently analyzed R882 and non-R882 mutations showed R882 mutations were associated with poorer prognosis than patients with wildtype and non-R882 mutations, but only in older patients with AML.
DNMT3A	R882H	DNMT3A R882 mutations are associated with cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia (CN-AML) with R882H as the most common form. Mutations in DNMT3A have largely been associated with poorer prognosis, however this is not consistent across all studies. This may be a result of patient age or combining R882 and non-R882 mutations during analysis as studies have indicated independent mechanisms of action and differential prognostic implications for these mutation types. One study that independently analyzed R882 and non-R882 mutations showed R882 mutations were associated with poorer prognosis than patients with wildtype and non-R882 mutations, but only in older patients with AML.
EGFR	L858R	EGFR L858R has long been recognized as a functionally significant mutation in cancer, and is one of the most prevalent single mutations in lung cancer. Best described in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), the mutation seems to confer sensitivity to first and second generation TKI's like gefitinib and neratinib. NSCLC patients with this mutation treated with TKI's show increased overall and progression-free survival, as compared to chemotherapy alone. Third generation TKI's are currently in clinical trials that specifically focus on mutant forms of EGFR, a few of which have shown efficacy in treating patients that failed to respond to earlier generation TKI therapies. 
EGFR	T790M	EGFR T790M was one of the very first mutations recognized to confer resistance to targeted therapies. While successful in amplified EGFR, the efficacy of the first and second generation TKI's (erlotinib, gefitinib, neratinib) in treating patients harboring this mutation before treatment is notably lower. This lack of efficacy can likely be to blame for the poorer prognosis for patients with this mutation as compared to patients with wildtype EGFR or other types of EGFR mutations. Approximately half of EGFR mutant tumors with acquired resistance to TKI inhibition have been shown to harbor this mutation, implicating it as a mechanism of acquired therapy resistence. The third generation TKI's are being developed with this resistance problem in mind, and early stage experiments have shown some efficacy of these drugs in previously resistant tumors with mutant EGFR. 
ERBB2	D769H	ERBB2 D769H was one of the first ERBB2 variants to be functionally classified (Bose et al. 2012). This mutation was shown to be an activating mutation in an in vitro assay. In the same paper, this mutation (along with other ERBB2 activating mutations) in MCF10A breast cancer cell lines have been shown to be sensitive to the kinase inhibitor neratinib. More recent evidence may show that HER2 acitivating mutations confer sensitivity to a host of tyrosine kinase inhibitors, which is the topic of current clinical trials and research.  
ERBB2	DEL 755-759	ERBB2 in-frame deletion of 755-759 was one of the first ERBB2 variants to be functionally classified (Bose et al. 2012). This mutation was shown to be an activating mutation in an in vitro assay. In the same paper, this mutation (along with other ERBB2 activating mutations) in MCF10A breast cancer cell lines have been shown to be sensitive to the kinase inhibitor neratinib. More recent evidence may show that HER2 acitivating mutations confer sensitivity to a host of tyrosine kinase inhibitors, which is the topic of current clinical trials and research.  
ERBB2	G309A	ERBB2 G309A was one of the first ERBB2 variants to be functionally classified (Bose et al. 2012). This mutation was shown to be an activating mutation in an in vitro assay. In the same paper, this mutation (along with other ERBB2 activating mutations) in MCF10A breast cancer cell lines have been shown to be sensitive to the kinase inhibitor neratinib. More recent evidence may show that HER2 acitivating mutations confer sensitivity to a host of tyrosine kinase inhibitors, which is the topic of current clinical trials and research.  
ERBB2	L755S	ERBB2 L755S was one of the first ERBB2 variants to be functionally classified (Bose et al. 2012). This mutation was not shown to be an activating mutation, unlike many of the other variants queried. This mutation was also shown to confer resistance to the tyrosine kinase inhibitor lapatinib in MCF10A cell lines. 
ERBB2	L755W	ERBB2 L755W was one of the first ERBB2 variants to be functionally classified (Bose et al. 2012). This mutation was shown to be an activating mutation in an in vitro assay. In the same paper, this mutation (along with other ERBB2 activating mutations) in MCF10A breast cancer cell lines have been shown to be sensitive to the kinase inhibitor neratinib. More recent evidence may show that HER2 acitivating mutations confer sensitivity to a host of tyrosine kinase inhibitors, which is the topic of current clinical trials and research.  
ERBB2	P780ins	ERBB2 P780 insertion was one of the first ERBB2 variants to be functionally classified (Bose et al. 2012). This mutation was shown to be an activating mutation in an in vitro assay. In the same paper, this mutation (along with other ERBB2 activating mutations) in MCF10A breast cancer cell lines have been shown to be sensitive to the kinase inhibitor neratinib. More recent evidence may show that HER2 acitivating mutations confer sensitivity to a host of tyrosine kinase inhibitors, which is the topic of current clinical trials and research.  
ERBB2	R678Q	ERBB2 R678Q was one of the first ERBB2 variants to be functionally classified (Bose et al. 2012). This mutation was shown to be an activating mutation in an in vitro assay. In the same paper, this mutation (along with other ERBB2 activating mutations) in MCF10A breast cancer cell lines have been shown to be sensitive to the kinase inhibitor neratinib. More recent evidence may show that HER2 acitivating mutations confer sensitivity to a host of tyrosine kinase inhibitors, which is the topic of current clinical trials and research.  
ERBB2	R896C	ERBB2 R896C was one of the first ERBB2 variants to be functionally classified (Bose et al. 2012). This mutation was shown to be an activating mutation in an in vitro assay. In the same paper, this mutation (along with other ERBB2 activating mutations) in MCF10A breast cancer cell lines have been shown to be sensitive to the kinase inhibitor neratinib. More recent evidence may show that HER2 acitivating mutations confer sensitivity to a host of tyrosine kinase inhibitors, which is the topic of current clinical trials and research.  
ERBB2	V777L	ERBB2 V777L was one of the first ERBB2 variants to be functionally classified (Bose et al. 2012). This mutation was shown to be an activating mutation in an in vitro assay. In the same paper, this mutation (along with other ERBB2 activating mutations) in MCF10A breast cancer cell lines have been shown to be sensitive to the kinase inhibitor neratinib. More recent evidence may show that HER2 acitivating mutations confer sensitivity to a host of tyrosine kinase inhibitors, which is the topic of current clinical trials and research.  
ERBB2	V842I	ERBB2 V842I was one of the first ERBB2 variants to be functionally classified (Bose et al. 2012). This mutation was shown to be an activating mutation in an in vitro assay. In the same paper, this mutation (along with other ERBB2 activating mutations) in MCF10A breast cancer cell lines have been shown to be sensitive to the kinase inhibitor neratinib. More recent evidence may show that HER2 acitivating mutations confer sensitivity to a host of tyrosine kinase inhibitors, which is the topic of current clinical trials and research.  
ESR1	L536Q	ESR1 biology has become a central focus in breast cancer therapy. In ER+ tumors, mutations in the ESR1 ligand binding domain have been shown to confer resistance to hormone therapy. This evidence has led to an increased use of targeted sequencing of the estrogen receptor in breast and ovarian cancer. Y536Q is one of these ligand binding domain mutations, and is commonly implicated in this hormone resistance. Preliminary data suggests ER-degrading agents, such as fulvestrant, may be beneficial in treating ESR1 mutant, hormone resistant breast cancers. 
ESR1	N538G	ESR1 biology has become a central focus in breast cancer therapy. In ER+ tumors, mutations in the ESR1 ligand binding domain have been shown to confer resistance to hormone therapy. This evidence has led to an increased use of targeted sequencing of the estrogen receptor in breast and ovarian cancer. N538G is one of these ligand binding domain  , and is commonly implicated in this hormone resistance. Preliminary data suggests ER-degrading agents, such as fulvestrant, may be beneficial in treating ESR1 mutant, hormone resistant breast cancers. 
ESR1	Y537C	ESR1 biology has become a central focus in breast cancer therapy. In ER+ tumors, mutations in the ESR1 ligand binding domain have been shown to confer resistance to hormone therapy. This evidence has led to an increased use of targeted sequencing of the estrogen receptor in breast and ovarian cancer. Y537C is one of these ligand binding domain  , and is commonly implicated in this hormone resistance. Preliminary data suggests ER-degrading agents, such as fulvestrant, may be beneficial in treating ESR1 mutant, hormone resistant breast cancers. 
ESR1	Y537N	ESR1 biology has become a central focus in breast cancer therapy. In ER+ tumors, mutations in the ESR1 ligand binding domain have been shown to confer resistance to hormone therapy. This evidence has led to an increased use of targeted sequencing of the estrogen receptor in breast and ovarian cancer. Y537N is one of these ligand binding domain  , and is commonly implicated in this hormone resistance. Preliminary data suggests ER-degrading agents, such as fulvestrant, may be beneficial in treating ESR1 mutant, hormone resistant breast cancers. 
ESR1	Y537S	ESR1 biology has become a central focus in breast cancer therapy. In ER+ tumors, mutations in the ESR1 ligand binding domain have been shown to confer resistance to hormone therapy. This evidence has led to an increased use of targeted sequencing of the estrogen receptor in breast and ovarian cancer. Y537S is one of these ligand binding domain  , and is commonly implicated in this hormone resistance. Preliminary data suggests ER-degrading agents, such as fulvestrant, may be beneficial in treating ESR1 mutant, hormone resistant breast cancers. 
FGFR2	FGFR2-AFF3	In a clinical sequencing program for advanced stage cancers, Wu et al (2013, Cancer Discovery) has identified a number of FGFR fusions in patients with many different cancer types. These fusions were also found to retain oligomerization capability, and result in enhanced cell proliferation. Cell lines harboring these fusions were shown to respond to pazopanib. The authors use these cases to highlight the need for enhanced clinical sequencing efforts.  
FGFR2	FGFR2-BICC1	In a clinical sequencing program for advanced stage cancers, Wu et al (2013, Cancer Discovery) has identified a number of FGFR fusions in patients with many different cancer types. These fusions were also found to retain oligomerization capability, and result in enhanced cell proliferation. Cell lines harboring these fusions were shown to respond to pazopanib. The authors use these cases to highlight the need for enhanced clinical sequencing efforts.  
FGFR2	FGFR2-CASP7	In a clinical sequencing program for advanced stage cancers, Wu et al (2013, Cancer Discovery) has identified a number of FGFR fusions in patients with many different cancer types. These fusions were also found to retain oligomerization capability, and result in enhanced cell proliferation. Cell lines harboring these fusions were shown to respond to pazopanib. The authors use these cases to highlight the need for enhanced clinical sequencing efforts.  
FGFR2	FGFR2-CCDC6	In a clinical sequencing program for advanced stage cancers, Wu et al (2013, Cancer Discovery) has identified a number of FGFR fusions in patients with many different cancer types. These fusions were also found to retain oligomerization capability, and result in enhanced cell proliferation. Cell lines harboring these fusions were shown to respond to pazopanib. The authors use these cases to highlight the need for enhanced clinical sequencing efforts.  
FGFR2	FGFR2-KIAA1967	In a clinical sequencing program for advanced stage cancers, Wu et al (2013, Cancer Discovery) has identified a number of FGFR fusions in patients with many different cancer types. These fusions were also found to retain oligomerization capability, and result in enhanced cell proliferation. Cell lines harboring these fusions were shown to respond to pazopanib. The authors use these cases to highlight the need for enhanced clinical sequencing efforts.  
FGFR2	FGFR2-MGEA5	In a clinical sequencing program for advanced stage cancers, Wu et al (2013, Cancer Discovery) has idenified a number of FGFR fusions in patients with many different cancer types. These fusions were also found to retain oligomerization capability, and result in enhanced cell proliferation. Cell lines harboring these fusions were shown to respond to pazopanib. Additionally, tumor size reduction was achieved by both ponatinib and pazopanib treatments administered separately in a single patient with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma and this fusion. The authors use these cases to highlight the need for enhanced clinical sequencing efforts.  
FGFR2	FGFR2-OFD1	In a clinical sequencing program for advanced stage cancers, Wu et al (2013, Cancer Discovery) has identified a number of FGFR fusions in patients with many different cancer types. These fusions were also found to retain oligomerization capability, and result in enhanced cell proliferation. Cell lines harboring these fusions were shown to respond to pazopanib. The authors use these cases to highlight the need for enhanced clinical sequencing efforts.  
FGFR2	FGFR2-SLC45A3	In a clinical sequencing program for advanced stage cancers, Wu et al (2013, Cancer Discovery) has identified a number of FGFR fusions in patients with many different cancer types. These fusions were also found to retain oligomerization capability, and result in enhanced cell proliferation. Cell lines harboring these fusions were shown to respond to pazopanib. The authors use these cases to highlight the need for enhanced clinical sequencing efforts.  
FGFR3	FGFR3-TACC3	In a clinical sequencing program for advanced stage cancers, Wu et al (2013, Cancer Discovery) has identified a number of FGFR fusions in patients with many different cancer types. These fusions were also found to retain oligomerization capability, and result in enhanced cell proliferation. These fusions were shown to respond to pazopanib. The authors use these cases to highlight the need for enhanced clinical sequencing efforts.  
FLT3	ITD	FLT3-ITD (internal tandem duplications) frequently occur in patients with hematologic malignancies such as chronic myelogenous leukemia, acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome, but particularly in cytogenetically normal AML (CN-AML). These duplication events disrupt the juxtamembrane domain of FLT3 and can be the result of a duplication of internal FLT3 sequence or other unrelated sequence resulting in an in-frame duplication event. The length of these duplications can vary widely which may have prognostic consequences, but this has not been conclusively determined. FLT3-ITD mutations overall have generally been associated with poor prognosis. Additional genes associated with CN-AML such as NPM1 may modulate the prognosis associated with this variant. 
FLT3	TKD	FLT3 tyrosine kinase domain mutations (aka FLT3-TKD) are much less common than FLT3-ITD (internal tandem duplication) mutations and may not confer the same prognostic impact. Although the majority of mutations are point mutations effecting D835 (most frequently D835Y), a small proportion involve an in-frame deletion of I836. These mutations are within the activation loop of the second tyrosine kinase domain of FLT3 and thought to result in constitutive activation of the receptor. 
GATA2	Expression	GATA2 misregulation has been observed in a number of hematologic malignancies, as well as non-small cell lung cancer. Treatment of over-active GATA2 pathways using the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib has shown dramatic tumor regression in lung cancer. 
GATA2	T354M	
IDH1	R132	IDH1 R132 mutations have been observed in a number of cancer types, and appear to behave quite differently in different environments. In myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia (AML), IDH1 R132 mutations have been shown to be associated with worse outcome and shorter overall survival. They have also been linked to cytogenetically normal AML, an intermediate risk subtype of the disease. However, in glioblastoma and astrocytoma, patients with IDH1 mutations have shown better overall survival than patients with wild-type IDH1. Also in contrast to AML, in glioblastoma, IDH1 mutations have been associated with the specific cytogenetic abnormalities, 1p and 19q deletions. 
IDH1	R132C	IDH1 R132 mutations have been observed in a number of cancer types, and appear to behave quite differently in different environments. In myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia (AML), IDH1 R132 mutations have been shown to be associated with worse outcome and shorter overall survival. They have also been linked to cytogenetically normal AML, an intermediate risk subtype of the disease. However, in glioblastoma and astrocytoma, patients with IDH1 mutations have shown better overall survival than patients with wild-type IDH1. Also in contrast to AML, in glioblastoma, IDH1 mutations have been associated with the specific cytogenetic abnormalities, 1p and 19q deletions. 
IDH1	R132H	IDH1 R132 mutations have been observed in a number of cancer types, and appear to behave quite differently in different environments. In myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia (AML), IDH1 R132 mutations have been shown to be associated with worse outcome and shorter overall survival. They have also been linked to cytogenetically normal AML, an intermediate risk subtype of the disease. However, in glioblastoma and astrocytoma, patients with IDH1 mutations have shown better overall survival than patients with wild-type IDH1. Also in contrast to AML, in glioblastoma, IDH1 mutations have been associated with the specific cytogenetic abnormalities, 1p and 19q deletions. 
IDH1	R132L	IDH1 R132 mutations have been observed in a number of cancer types, and appear to behave quite differently in different environments. In myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia (AML), IDH1 R132 mutations have been shown to be associated with worse outcome and shorter overall survival. They have also been linked to cytogenetically normal AML, an intermediate risk subtype of the disease. However, in glioblastoma and astrocytoma, patients with IDH1 mutations have shown better overall survival than patients with wild-type IDH1. Also in contrast to AML, in glioblastoma, IDH1 mutations have been associated with the specific cytogenetic abnormalities, 1p and 19q deletions. 
IDH2	R140Q/L	IDH2 mutations have been observed in a number of hematologic malignancies. In acute myeloid leukemia, the R140Q/L mutants have shown improved overall survival as compared to their wild-type counterparts. In myelodysplastic syndromes, however, no prognostic link was discovered between IDH2 mutation status and overall survival. 
IDH2	R172K	IDH2 mutations have been observed in a number of hematologic malignancies. In acute myeloid leukemia, the R172K mutation has been linked with poorer prognosis and worse overall survival than IDH2 wild-type patients. However, in myelodisplastic syndromes, studies did not find a prognostic association between this variant and patient outcomes. 
JAK2	V617F	JAK2 V617F is a highly recurrent mutation in myeloproliferative diseases, occuring in around half of all MPD's. While less associated with cancer, when it is seen, it is more likely to be in myeloid leukemias than lymphoid leukemias. The V617F mutation is an activating mutation, resulting in increased kinase activity. The mutation seems to be restricted to hematologic malignancies. Treatment of JAK mutant diseases with ruxolitinib has seen some clinical success. 
KIT	D816V	KIT D816V is a mutation observed in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). This variant has been linked to poorer prognosis and worse outcome in AML patients. 
KIT	Exon 11	c-KIT mutations in exon 11 lie within the juxtamembrane domain, and are very recurrent in gastrointestinal stromal tumors, often bearing a poorer prognosis than other KIT mutations. Cells harboring exon 11 mutations have shown sensitivity to the tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib, offering a better prognosis to patients treated with the drug in the first year. 
KIT	Exon 13	c-KIT exon 13 mutations are relatively rare compared to other c-KIT mutations. These mutations lie within the tyrosine kinase 1 domain, and are found primarily in melanoma and gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Cell lines harboring these mutations show sensitivity to imatinib and sunitinib treatment. However, only imatinib has seen use in clinical settings to date, with sunitinib entering trials in imatinib-resistant cases. 
KIT	Exon 14	c-KIT exon 14 mutations lie within the tyrosine kinase domain of the protein. While relatively rare in primary gastrointestinal tumors, they are notably more prevalent in refractory disease, suggesting a role in imatinib resistance. Unlike mutations in other KIT exons, exon 14 mutations seem relatively rare in melanoma. 
KIT	Exon 17	c-KIT exon 17 mutations lie within the TK2 domain, containing the activation loop of the protein. In cell lines, mutations within this domain have been shown to be sensitive to imatinib. However, in double KIT mutants in which the exon 17 mutation is a secondary mutation, cell lines have shown resistance to both imatinib and sunitinib. 
KIT	Exon 9	c-KIT exon 9 mutations lie within the dimerization motif of the protein. Relative to other KIT mutations, exon 9 mutations have been associated with better overall survival. In exon 9 mutants, imatinib has shown efficacy both in vitro and in vivo. 
KIT	L576P	KIT L576P is an exon 11 mutation that lies within the juxtamembrane domain. It is one of the most recurrent KIT mutations in melanoma, and both in vitro and in vivo studies have shown sensitivity to imatinib. 
KIT	V654A	KIT V654A is an exon 13 mutation that lies within the tyrosine kinase 1 domain of the protein. It has been shown to be an activating mutation by in vitro studies. This mutation is associated with imatinib resistance in melanoma patients. However, second generation TKI's such as sunitinib and midostaurin (PKC 412) have seen success in acheiving tumor response. 
KRAS	Exon 1	A study by Lièvre et al in 2006 showed that colorectal cancer patients with KRAS exon 1 mutations had low cetuximab response rates. 
KRAS	Exon 2	In a study by Pan et al in 2005, non-small cell lung cancer patients harboring KRAS exon 2 mutations were associated with resistance to the EGFR inhibitors gefinitib and erlotinib. 
KRAS	G12	While the KRAS G12 region is a widely studied recurrent region in cancer, its impact on clinical action is still debated. Often associated with tumors that are wild-type for other drivers (EGFR and ALK specifically), the prognosis for patients with this mutation seems to be worse than the KRAS wild-type cohort. This mutation, along with the mutations affecting the neighboring G13 position, may result in a less responsive tumor when treated with first-generation TKI's like gefitinib. 
KRAS	G12/G13	While the KRAS G12 region is a widely studied recurrent region in cancer, its impact on clinical action is still debated. Often associated with tumors that are wild-type for other drivers (EGFR and ALK specifically), the prognosis for patients with this mutation seems to be worse than the KRAS wild-type cohort. This mutation may result in a less responsive tumor when treated with first-generation TKI's like gefitinib. 
KRAS	G12C	While the KRAS G12 region is a widely studied recurrent region in cancer, its impact on clinical action is still debated. Often associated with tumors that are wild-type for other drivers (EGFR and ALK specifically), the prognosis for patients with this mutation seems to be worse than the KRAS wild-type cohort. This mutation, along with the mutations affecting the neighboring G13 position, may result in a less responsive tumor when treated with first-generation TKI's like gefitinib. 
KRAS	G12D	While the KRAS G12 region is a widely studied recurrent region in cancer, its impact on clinical action is still debated. Often associated with tumors that are wild-type for other drivers (EGFR and ALK specifically), the prognosis for patients with this mutation seems to be worse than the KRAS wild-type cohort. This mutation, along with the mutations affecting the neighboring G13 position, may result in a less responsive tumor when treated with first-generation TKI's like gefitinib. 
KRAS	G13	While the KRAS G13 region is a widely studied recurrent region in cancer, its impact on clinical action is still debated. Often associated with tumors that are wild-type for other drivers (EGFR and ALK specifically), the prognosis for patients with this mutation seems to be worse than the KRAS wild-type cohort. This mutation, along with the mutations affecting the neighboring G12 position, may result in a less responsive tumor when treated with first-generation TKI's like gefitinib. 
KRAS	G13D	While the KRAS G13 region is a widely studied recurrent region in cancer, its impact on clinical action is still debated. Often associated with tumors that are wild-type for other drivers (EGFR and ALK specifically), the prognosis for patients with this mutation seems to be worse than the KRAS wild-type cohort. This mutation, along with the mutations affecting the neighboring G12 position, may result in a less responsive tumor when treated with first-generation TKI's like gefitinib. 
MAP2K1	P124S	MAP2K1 P124S is a recurrent mutation in melanoma, and is seen in bladder and colon cancer to a lesser degree. The P124S mutation has been shown to contribute to AZD6244 resistance in melanoma cell lines, but considerably less so than its Q56P counterpart.  
MAP2K1	Q56P	MAP2K1 Q56P is a recurrent mutation in melanoma and gastric cancer. This mutation has been shown to confer considerable resistance to AZD6244 treatment of melanoma cell lines. 
MEF2D	MEF2D-CSF1R	MEF2D-CSF1R is a fusion that has been observed in acute lymphocytic leukemia. In cell lines harboring this event, treatment with imatinib has shown notable sensitivity. 
MGMT	Promoter Methylation	MGMT promoter methylation has been observed to impact tumor progression in glioblastoma multiforme. In patients exhibiting promoter methylation, the akylating agent carmustine has shown efficacy. In patients lacking methylation, combining carmustine with the MGMT inhibitor O(6)-benzylguanine may be effective, but more experiments are required. Clinical trials have also shown selective sensitivity of promoter methylation-positive patients to temozolomide, making a case for wider methylation screening in GBM patients.
NPM1	Exon 12	NPM1 exon 12 mutations are frequently identified in patients with cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and often co-occur with FLT3-ITD. FLT3 status should also be evaluated as co-occurance with FLT3-ITD may impact prognosis. Exon 12 mutations have been identified as a predictor of good prognostic outcomes in the absence of FLT3-ITD. Due to their high frequency, NPM1 mutations have been retrospectively analyzed in the context of a number of therapies including variable results following ATRA treatment as well as improved response to high-dose daunorubicin or valproic acid. Additionally, multiple groups have shown increased surface expression of CD33 associated with NPM1 mutation, suggesting these patients may respond to anti-CD33 therapy. Cytoplasmic sequestration of NPM1 (NPM1c) is associated with a good response to induction therapy.
NPM1	W288fs	NPM1 W288fs (aka NPM1-A) is located in exon 12 of NPM1 and is the most common NPM1 mutation identified in acute myeloid leukemia. This mutation results in cytoplasmic localization of NPM1 (NPM1c) which is associated with a good response to induction therapy. Although it is the most extensively studied NPM1 exon 12 mutation, it is generally grouped with other exon 12 mutations for patient analysis (see NPM1 Exon 12 variants for more information). 
NRAS	Exon 1	NRAS exon 1 mutations were studied by Jakob et al in 2012 and were shown to be correlated with poorer overall survival relative to wild-type NRAS in melanoma patients. 
NRAS	Exon 2	NRAS exon 2 mutations have been shown to be correlated with poorer overall survival in melanoma patients and colorectal cancer patients, however no prognostic impact was seen in acute myeloid leukemia patients. 
NRAS	Exon 3	In a multi-gene prognostic survey, Therkildsen et al 2014 found NRAS exon 3 and 4 mutations were correlated with poorer overall survival. 
NRAS	Exon 4	In a multi-gene prognostic survey, Therkildsen et al 2014 found NRAS exon 3 and 4 mutations were correlated with poorer overall survival. 
NRAS	G12	While the NRAS G12 region is a widely studied recurrent region in cancer, its impact on clinical action is still debated. 
NRAS	G13D	While the NRAS G12 region is a widely studied recurrent region in cancer, its impact on clinical action is still debated. 
NRAS	Q61	NRAS Q61 mutations have been found in multiple myeloma, gastrointestinal stromal tumors, melanoma, and others. Two melanoma patients, each harboring mutations at this locus (Q61L and Q61R), responded to treatment with the akylating agent temozolomide. However, in colorectal cancer patients, mutations at this locus have been shown to confer resistance to cetuximab. The prognostic impact of mutations at this locus is currently under study.  
NRAS	Q61L	NRAS Q61 mutations have been found in multiple myeloma, gastrointestinal stromal tumors, melanoma, and others. A melanoma patient harboring a mutation at this locus responded to treatment with the akylating agent temozolomide. However, in colorectal cancer patients, mutations at this locus have been shown to confer resistance to cetuximab. The prognostic impact of mutations at this locus is currently under study.  
NRAS	Q61R	NRAS Q61 mutations have been found in multiple myeloma, gastrointestinal stromal tumors, melanoma, and others. A melanoma patient harboring a mutation at this locus responded to treatment with the akylating agent temozolomide. However, in colorectal cancer patients, mutations at this locus have been shown to confer resistance to cetuximab. The prognostic impact of mutations at this locus is currently under study.  
PDGFRA	D842I	PDGFRA D842 mutations are characterized broadly as imatinib resistance mutations. This is most well characterized in gastrointestinal stromal tumors, but other cell lines containing these mutations have been shown to be resistant as well. In imatinib resistant cell lines, a number of other therapeutics have demonstrated efficacy. These include; crenolanib, sirolimus, and midostaurin (PKC412). 
PDGFRA	D842V	PDGFRA D842 mutations are characterized broadly as imatinib resistance mutations. This is most well characterized in gastrointestinal stromal tumors, but other cell lines containing these mutations have been shown to be resistant as well. In imatinib resistant cell lines, a number of other therapeutics have demonstrated efficacy. These include; crenolanib, sirolimus, and midostaurin (PKC412). 
PDGFRA	D842Y	PDGFRA D842 mutations are characterized broadly as imatinib resistance mutations. This is most well characterized in gastrointestinal stromal tumors, but other cell lines containing these mutations have been shown to be resistant as well. In imatinib resistant cell lines, a number of other therapeutics have demonstrated efficacy. These include; crenolanib, sirolimus, and midostaurin (PKC412). 
PDGFRA	del I843	PDGFRA D842 mutations are characterized broadly as imatinib resistance mutations. This is most well characterized in gastrointestinal stromal tumors, but other cell lines containing these mutations have been shown to be resistant as well. In imatinib resistant cell lines, a number of other therapeutics have demonstrated efficacy. These include; crenolanib, sirolimus, and midostaurin (PKC412). 
PDGFRA	DI842-843IM	PDGFRA D842 mutations are characterized broadly as imatinib resistance mutations. This is most well characterized in gastrointestinal stromal tumors, but other cell lines containing these mutations have been shown to be resistant as well. In imatinib resistant cell lines, a number of other therapeutics have demonstrated efficacy. These include; crenolanib, sirolimus, and midostaurin (PKC412). 
PIK3CA	E542K	PIK3CA E545K/E542K are the second most recurrent PIK3CA mutations in breast cancer, and are highly recurrent mutations in many other cancer types. E545K, and possibly the other mutations in the E545 region, may present patients with a poorer prognosis than patients with either patients with other PIK3CA variant or wild-type PIK3CA. There is also data to suggest that E545/542 mutations may confer resistance to EGFR inhibitors like cetuximab. While very prevalent, targeted therapies for variants in PIK3CA are still in early clinical trial phases. 
PIK3CA	E545K	PIK3CA E545K/E542K are the second most recurrent PIK3CA mutations in breast cancer, and are highly recurrent mutations in many other cancer types. E545K, and possibly the other mutations in the E545 region, may present patients with a poorer prognosis than patients with either patients with other PIK3CA variant or wild-type PIK3CA. There is also data to suggest that E545/542 mutations may confer resistance to EGFR inhibitors like cetuximab. While very prevalent, targeted therapies for variants in PIK3CA are still in early clinical trial phases. 
PIK3CA	Exon 20	PIK3CA H1047R is one of the most recurrent mutations in cancer, especially breast cancer. Of PIK3CA mutant breast cancers, over half harbor this mutation. Meta-analyses have shown that patients harboring this mutation may have worse overall survival, but other studies have shown no difference between H1047R and other PIK3CA mutants from a prognostic standpoint. While very prevalent, targeted therapies for this particular mutation are still in early clinical trial phases. 
PIK3CA	Exon 9	PIK3CA E545K/E542K are the second most recurrent PIK3CA mutations in breast cancer, and are highly recurrent mutations in many other cancer types. E545K, and possibly the other mutations in the E545 region, may present patients with a poorer prognosis than patients with either patients with other PIK3CA variant or wild-type PIK3CA. There is also data to suggest that E545/542 mutations may confer resistance to EGFR inhibitors like cetuximab. While very prevalent, targeted therapies for variants in PIK3CA are still in early clinical trial phases. 
PIK3CA	H1047R	PIK3CA H1047R is one of the most recurrent mutations in cancer, especially breast cancer. Of PIK3CA mutant breast cancers, over half harbor this mutation. Meta-analyses have shown that patients harboring this mutation may have worse overall survival, but other studies have shown no difference between H1047R and other PIK3CA mutants from a prognostic standpoint. While very prevalent, targeted therapies for this particular mutation are still in early clinical trial phases. 
PML	PML-RARa	The PML-RARa fusion is seen as a diagnostic event in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Both in vitro and in vivo studies have shown sensitivity to ATRA in APL patients harboring the PML-RARa fusion. Recent interest has been shown in combining ATRA and arsenic trioxide for treating these patients, and early results seem promising. 
PRKACA	DNAJB1-PRKACA	This fusion has been found to be very recurrent in a rare form of adolescent liver cancer, hepatocellular fibrolamellar carcinoma. In a 2014 study, authors found Honeyman et al observed this fusion in all 15 of the FL-HCC cases they examined, and functional studies found that the fusion retained kinase activity. The presence of this fusion may be used as a diagnostic marker for this rare tumor type. 
PTEN	R233*	PTEN R233* has been shown to be a loss of function mutation, and PTEN loss has been the subject of considerable research in breast cancer. PTEN loss may sensitize cells to PI3K-mTOR inhibition. While still being debated, there is data to support that PTEN loss is both associated with poorer prognosis, and no change in prognosis. 
RARa	PML-RARa	The PML-RARa fusion is seen as a diagnostic event in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Both in vitro and in vivo studies have shown sensitivity to ATRA in APL patients harboring the PML-RARa fusion. Recent interest has been shown in combining ATRA and Arsenic Trioxide for treating these patients, and early results seem promising. 
RET	C634W	RET C639W has been implicated as an alternate mechanism of activating RET in medullary thyroid cancer. While there currently are no RET-specific inhibiting agents, promiscuous kinase inhibitors have seen some success in treating RET overactivity. Data suggests however, that the C639W mutation may lead to drug resistance, especially against the VEGFR-inhibitor motesanib.
RET	M918T	RET M819T is the most common somatically acquired mutation in medullary thyroid cancer (MTC). While there currently are no RET-specific inhibiting agents, promiscuous kinase inhibitors have seen some success in treating RET overactivity. Data suggests however, that the M918T mutation may lead to drug resistance, especially against the VEGFR-inhibitor motesanib. It has also been suggested that RET M819T leads to more aggressive MTC with a poorer prognosis.
SF3B1	K666N	SF3B1 K666N is a variant found in myelodysplastic syndromes, chronic leukemias, and more recently, breast cancer. This somatic mutation has been linked to better overall outcome and event-free survival in MDS patients.
SF3B1	K700E	SF3B1 K700E is a variant found in myelodysplastic syndromes, chronic leukemias, and more recently, breast cancer. This somatic mutation has been linked to better overall outcome and event-free survival in MDS patients. Additionally, these mutations are the most common SF3B1 mutation observed in MDS and highly associated with subtypes of MDS that are defined by ringed sideroblasts.
TP53	R175H	While loss-of-function events in TP53 are very common in cancer, the R175H variant seems not only to result in loss of tumor-suppression, but also acts as a gain-of-function mutation that promotes tumorigenesis in mouse models. Cell lines harboring this mutant is also more responsive to treatment with doxorubicin than its wild-type counterparts. While the prognostic impact of individual TP53 mutations is influenced by the cohort being studied, it has been shown that the R175H mutation is correlated with worse overall survival than wild-type TP53, but is not as detrimental as the R248W variant. 
TP53	R248Q	While loss-of-function events in TP53 are very common in cancer, the R248 variants seem not only to result in loss of tumor-suppression, but also act as a gain-of-function mutation that can promote tumorigenesis in mouse models. This mutant is also more responsive to treatment with doxorubicin than its wild-type counterparts. While the prognostic impact of individual TP53 mutations is influenced by the cohort being studied, R248 mutations have been shown to confer worse overall survival. The R248Q mutation has also shown an increased invasive behavior in cell lines. This is specific to the 248Q variant. 
TP53	R248W	While loss-of-function events in TP53 are very common in cancer, the R248 variants seem not only to result in loss of tumor-suppression, but also act as a gain-of-function mutation that can promote tumorigenesis in mouse models. This mutant is also more responsive to treatment with doxorubicin than its wild-type counterparts. While the prognostic impact of individual TP53 mutations is influenced by the cohort being studied, R248 mutations have been shown to confer worse overall survival.
TP53	R249T	This mutant is also more responsive to treatment with doxorubicin than its wild-type counterparts. While the prognostic impact of individual TP53 mutations is influenced by the cohort being studied, it has been suggested that the R249 mutants have been correlated with worse overall survival in breast cancer patients when compared to wild-type. 
TP53	R249W	This mutant is also more responsive to treatment with doxorubicin than its wild-type counterparts. While the prognostic impact of individual TP53 mutations is influenced by the cohort being studied, it has been suggested that the R249 mutants have been correlated with worse overall survival in breast cancer patients when compared to wild-type. 
TP53	R273C	While loss-of-function events in TP53 are very common in cancer, the R273 variants seem not only to result in loss of tumor-suppression, but also act as a gain-of-function mutation that can promote tumorigenesis in mouse models. This mutant is also more responsive to treatment with doxorubicin than its wild-type counterparts. While the prognostic impact of individual TP53 mutations is influenced by the cohort being studied, it has been suggested that the R273 mutants have been correlated with worse overall survival in breast cancer patients when compared to wild-type. 
TP53	R273H	While loss-of-function events in TP53 are very common in cancer, the R273 variants seem not only to result in loss of tumor-suppression, but also act as a gain-of-function mutation that can promote tumorigenesis in mouse models. This mutant is also more responsive to treatment with doxorubicin than its wild-type counterparts. While the prognostic impact of individual TP53 mutations is influenced by the cohort being studied, it has been suggested that the R273 mutants have been correlated with worse overall survival in breast cancer patients when compared to wild-type. 
TP53	V173G/A	While the prognostic impact of individual TP53 mutations is influenced by the cohort being studied, it has been suggested that the R249 mutants have been correlated with worse overall survival in breast cancer patients when compared to wild-type. 
TSC1	Frameshift truncation	In a small cohort study of bladder cancer, patients with TSC1 mutations showed better responses to and increased treatment duration tolerance with the mTOR inhibitor everolimus. Additionally, patient-derived bladder cancer cell lines with TSC1 or TSC2 mutations are much more sensitive to everolimus treatment than TSC1/TSC2 wildtype cells.
TSC1	Loss-of-Function  	In a small cohort study of bladder cancer, patients with TSC1 mutations showed better responses to and increased treatment duration tolerance with the mTOR inhibitor everolimus. Additionally, patient-derived bladder cancer cell lines with TSC1 or TSC2 mutations are much more sensitive to everolimus treatment than TSC1/TSC2 wildtype cells.
TSC2	Loss-of-Function  	In a small cohort study of bladder cancer, patients with TSC1 mutations showed better responses to and increased treatment duration tolerance with the mTOR inhibitor everolimus. Additionally, patient-derived bladder cancer cell lines with TSC1 or TSC2 mutations are much more sensitive to everolimus treatment than TSC1/TSC2 wildtype cells.
U2AF1	Q157P/R	U2AF1 Q157P/R has been shown to be a recurrent mutation in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and lung adenocarcinomas. This mutation is less common than the S34F mutation, occurs in the second zinc finger domain of U2AF1 and has been demonstrated to alter splicing. The impact of U2AF1 mutations on overall survival in MDS has been debated, however, patients with U2AF1 mutations were shown to be at an increased risk of transformation to secondary AML. The presence of this mutation was not associated with a specific prognostic outcome in AML when compared to U2AF1 wildtype patients. 
U2AF1	S34Y/F	U2AF1 S34Y/F has been shown to be a recurrent mutation in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and lung adenocarcinomas. This mutation is the most commonly identified variant in MDS, occurs in the first zinc finger domain of U2AF1 and has been demonstrated to alter splicing. The impact of U2AF1 mutations on overall survival in MDS has been debated, however, patients with U2AF1 mutations were shown to be at an increased risk of transformation to secondary AML. The presence of this mutation was not associated with a specific prognostic outcome in AML when compared to U2AF1 wildtype patients. 
WT1	Exon 7	WT1 exon 7 mutations have been shown to be recurrent in acute myeloid leukemia. Many sources have examined the prognostic impact of these, agreeing that the mutant exon 7 cohort is correlated with worse overall survival and a number of poor prognistic outcomes. This may be the result of an overall poor response to chemotherapy from WT1 mutant tumors. 
WT1	Exon 9	WT1 exon 9 mutations have been shown to be recurrent in acute myeloid leukemia, although at a less frequent rate than their exon 7 counterparts. Many sources have examined the prognostic impact of these, agreeing that the mutant exon 9 cohort is correlated with worse overall survival and a number of poor prognistic outcomes. This may be the result of an overall poor response to chemotherapy from WT1 mutant tumors. 